1. Capstone Project Ideas (November 2, 2017)

Idea #1:  "The luck of the draw" - Analyzing Powerball Lottery Data

Problem: With increasingly larger jackpot records, there have been stories of insiders cheating and using the system to their advantage.  
As a result, is the lottery truly random or do we have a better chance with certain numbers? How can we use our findings to increase
"fairness" and increase the amount of participation to help our schools.

Client(s)/User(s): Participating state lottery authorities.  The analysis, insights and data could help lottery authorities promote their
product, enhance the public perception of fairness (dare I say... make it seem like ones odds are better).  The end result is to increase 
the financial benefit to the communities the state lotteries support.

Data: Historical powerball drawing data, historical jackpot size data and winnings data.


Idea #2: California Bay Area Housing

Problem:  Bay area home/real estate prices and affordability have reached levels that have become out of reach for many. I aim to look at the 
data and perhaps in the context of multiple dimensions of factors (economic/job growth, correlated asset prices, census data) to determine if 
the current trends are justified by structural flux as opposed to speculation that could lead to our next bubble.  The objective of the idea is 
not to predict what will happen but to analyze/visualize the driving factors. 

Client(s)/User(s): Potential and current homeowners, urban planning committees, real estate companies (brokerages and sites like Zillow/Trulia/Redfin), 
mortgage industry, economists (SF Fed Bank).  

Data: Fed Housing Data: https://catalog.data.gov/dataset/housing-affordability-data-system-hads
Zillow HVI: https://www.zillow.com/research/data/#median-home-value


Idea #3: Student Debt Bubble - Fact or Fiction?

Problem: Media outlets seem to assert that a student loan bubble is on the horizon as education costs (and thus student debt) rises in lockstep 
with default rates.  The changing landscape of the labor market and social activism seems to also indicate systematic problems with college 
graduates as they enter the workforce.  

Client(s)/User(s): Economists, student loan services, higher education organizations. 

Data: Student Loan Data: https://catalog.data.gov/dataset/national-student-loan-data-system 


Wish list ideas...
- Something with bitcoin... perhaps analysis of overall ICOs.
- Bay Area traffic patterns
- Shareholder Ownership Changes (provide insight and analysis of shareholder activity of a particular stock.  client: investor relations 
  officers, C-suite management, Board of Directors.  data: 13F filings, trading data... but need DTC data (non-public))

